readme.md, before:

Bluetooth Manager Docker for Raspberry Pi
This project provides a Dockerized solution for managing Bluetooth devices on a Raspberry Pi using BlueZ (Linux Bluetooth protocol stack) and a Flask-based web interface. The web interface allows users to discover, pair, connect, disconnect, and browse GATT services of Bluetooth devices.
Features

Bluetooth Management: Discover, pair, connect, and disconnect Bluetooth devices via BlueZ.
Web Interface: A user-friendly interface built with Flask and styled with Tailwind CSS.
GATT Service Browsing: View GATT services of paired devices.
Logging: Integrated logging with support for Loki (optional) for debugging and monitoring.
Custom UID/GID: Support for custom user and group IDs at runtime to match host system permissions.
Secure D-Bus Configuration: Fine-grained D-Bus permissions for non-root user bluezuser.
Dockerized: Runs in a lightweight container, optimized for Raspberry Pi (ARM architecture).

Prerequisites

Raspberry Pi with a Bluetooth adapter (e.g., Raspberry Pi 4).
Docker and Docker Compose installed on the Raspberry Pi.
Access to the internet for pulling the pre-built Docker image.

Installation
1. Install Docker and Docker Compose
Run the following commands to install Docker and Docker Compose:
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh
sudo sh get-docker.sh
sudo usermod -aG docker pi
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y docker-compose
sudo reboot

2. Clone or Create Project Directory
Create a project directory and save the docker-compose.yml file:
mkdir bluetooth-manager
cd bluetooth-manager

Required file:

docker-compose.yml

If you need to modify or rebuild the application, include these files:

Dockerfile
requirements.txt
bluezuser.conf
entrypoint.sh
app.py
templates/index.html

Directory structure (for pre-built image, only docker-compose.yml is needed):
bluetooth-manager/
└── docker-compose.yml

3. Configure Docker Compose
Edit docker-compose.yml to set the correct image name. Replace <username> with your Docker Hub or GitHub Container Registry username:
image: docker.io/<username>/bluetooth-manager:latest

For GitHub Container Registry, use:
image: ghcr.io/<username>/bluetooth-manager:latest

4. (Optional) Configure Custom UID/GID
To match the Raspberry Pi's user (e.g., pi with UID=1000, GID=1000), create a .env file:
echo "USER_UID=1000" >> .env
echo "USER_GID=1000" >> .env

Check your UID/GID with id pi. If not specified, defaults to USER_UID=1000 and USER_GID=1000.
5. Run with Docker Compose
Pull and start the services:
docker-compose up -d

Alternatively, specify UID/GID directly:
USER_UID=1001 USER_GID=1001 docker-compose up -d

To enable Loki logging, uncomment the loki service and volumes in docker-compose.yml before running.
6. (Optional) Build Locally
If you need to build the image locally (e.g., for modifications), include all project files and run:
docker-compose build

Or build with Docker directly:
docker build -t bluetooth-manager .
docker run --net=host --cap-add=NET_ADMIN -v /var/run/dbus:/var/run/dbus -p 5000:5000 -e USER_UID=1000 -e USER_GID=1000 -t bluetooth-manager

Usage

Access the Web Interface:Open a browser and navigate to http://<Raspberry-Pi-IP>:5000.

Click "Scan for Devices" to discover nearby Bluetooth devices.
Use the "Pair", "Connect", "Disconnect", or "View Services" buttons to manage devices.
GATT services for paired devices are displayed below the device list.


API Endpoints:

GET /api/scan: Start a Bluetooth device discovery (runs for 10 seconds).
GET /api/devices: Retrieve the list of discovered devices.
POST /api/pair/<address>: Pair with a device (e.g., POST /api/pair/00:11:22:33:44:55).
POST /api/connect/<address>: Connect to a paired device.
POST /api/disconnect/<address>: Disconnect from a connected device.
GET /api/services/<address>: Retrieve GATT services for a device.


View Logs:

Check container logs:docker-compose logs bluetooth-manager


If Loki is enabled, access logs via a Grafana dashboard connected to http://<Raspberry-Pi-IP>:3100.


Stop and Clean Up:Stop and remove containers:
docker-compose down

To remove Loki data (if enabled):
docker-compose down -v



File Structure

docker-compose.yml: Defines services for bluetooth-manager and optional loki logging.
Dockerfile (optional for local build): Defines the Docker image with BlueZ, PyGObject, and Python dependencies.
requirements.txt (optional): Lists Python dependencies (flask, dasbus, PyGObject, python-logging-loki).
bluezuser.conf (optional): D-Bus configuration for bluezuser to access BlueZ interfaces, located at /etc/dbus-1/system.d/bluezuser.conf.
entrypoint.sh (optional): Script to initialize the Bluetooth adapter, adjust UID/GID, and start the Flask app.
app.py (optional): Flask application with Bluetooth management logic and logging.
templates/index.html (optional): Web interface styled with Tailwind CSS.

Notes

Pre-built Image: Ensure the image field in docker-compose.yml points to the correct registry (e.g., docker.io/<username>/bluetooth-manager:latest or ghcr.io/<username>/bluetooth-manager:latest).
Custom UID/GID: Set via .env or environment variables to match the host system (check with id <username>).
Loki Logging: Optional. Remove python-logging-loki from requirements.txt and related code in app.py if not using Loki. Uncomment the loki service in docker-compose.yml to enable.
ARM Compatibility: The image must be built for ARM architecture (e.g., via GitHub Actions with ARM support).
Security: The D-Bus configuration is restricted to essential BlueZ interfaces. Avoid running with --privileged.
PyGObject Dependency: The gi module (via PyGObject) is required for dasbus. Ensure libgirepository1.0-dev and gir1.2-glib-2.0 are included in the image.

Troubleshooting

ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'gi':

Cause: The PyGObject module is missing, required by dasbus for D-Bus communication.
Fix: Ensure PyGObject is in requirements.txt and libgirepository1.0-dev, gir1.2-glib-2.0 are installed in the Dockerfile. Rebuild the image:docker-compose build

Verify installation:docker exec <container_id> python3 -c "import gi; print(gi.__version__)"

If using GitHub Actions, ensure the workflow rebuilds and pushes the updated image.


Can't open HCI socket: Address family not supported by protocol:

Cause: The Bluetooth adapter is not detected, disabled, or the container lacks permissions.
Fix:
Ensure the Bluetooth adapter is enabled on the host:sudo hciconfig hci0 up


Verify Bluetooth kernel modules are loaded:lsmod | grep bluetooth
sudo modprobe bluetooth
sudo modprobe btusb


Check docker-compose.yml includes network_mode: host and cap_add: NET_ADMIN.
Verify entrypoint.sh checks for the adapter (hciconfig hci0).




sudo: /usr/lib/bluetooth/bluetoothd: command not found:

Cause: The bluetoothd binary is missing or at a different path (e.g., /usr/libexec/bluetooth/bluetoothd).
Fix:
Ensure bluez is installed in the Dockerfile:docker exec <container_id> dpkg -l | grep bluez


Verify the correct path in entrypoint.sh (/usr/libexec/bluetooth/bluetoothd).
Rebuild the image if bluez is missing:docker-compose build






Traceback involving dasbus and gi:

Cause: The dasbus library fails to import due to a missing gi module.
Fix: Same as for ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'gi'. Ensure PyGObject and its system dependencies are installed. Verify dasbus installation:docker exec <container_id> python3 -c "import dasbus; print(dasbus.__version__)"




Image Not Found: Verify the image field in docker-compose.yml matches the registry path. Pull the image manually:
docker pull docker.io/<username>/bluetooth-manager:latest


Bluetooth Adapter Not Found: Ensure the Raspberry Pi’s Bluetooth adapter is enabled (hciconfig hci0 up).

D-Bus Errors: Verify /etc/dbus-1/system.d/bluezuser.conf exists in the image and has correct permissions (644).

Web Interface Unreachable: Check if port 5000 is open and the Raspberry Pi’s IP is correct.

Permission Issues: Confirm the container has NET_ADMIN capability and the D-Bus socket is mounted.

Loki Not Working: Ensure the loki service is uncommented and the URL in app.py matches (http://loki:3100/loki/api/v1/push).


Future Improvements

Add support for GATT characteristic read/write and notifications.
Enhance the web interface with real-time updates using WebSockets.
Implement authentication for the web interface and API.
Optimize scanning duration and device filtering.

For issues or feature requests, please contact the project maintainer.

Commit message:

Correct docker build error about new package

readme.md, after:

Bluetooth Manager Docker for Raspberry Pi
This project provides a Dockerized solution for managing Bluetooth devices on a Raspberry Pi using BlueZ (Linux Bluetooth protocol stack) and a Flask-based web interface. The web interface allows users to discover, pair, connect, disconnect, and browse GATT services of Bluetooth devices.
Features

Bluetooth Management: Discover, pair, connect, and disconnect Bluetooth devices via BlueZ.
Web Interface: A user-friendly interface built with Flask and styled with Tailwind CSS.
GATT Service Browsing: View GATT services of paired devices.
Logging: Integrated logging with support for Loki (optional) for debugging and monitoring.
Custom UID/GID: Support for custom user and group IDs at runtime to match host system permissions.
Secure D-Bus Configuration: Fine-grained D-Bus permissions for non-root user bluezuser.
Dockerized: Runs in a lightweight container, optimized for Raspberry Pi (ARM architecture).

Prerequisites

Raspberry Pi with a Bluetooth adapter (e.g., Raspberry Pi 4).
Docker and Docker Compose installed on the Raspberry Pi.
Access to the internet for pulling the pre-built Docker image.

Installation
1. Install Docker and Docker Compose
Run the following commands to install Docker and Docker Compose:
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh
sudo sh get-docker.sh
sudo usermod -aG docker pi
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y docker-compose
sudo reboot

2. Clone or Create Project Directory
Create a project directory and save the docker-compose.yml file:
mkdir bluetooth-manager
cd bluetooth-manager

Required file:

docker-compose.yml

If you need to modify or rebuild the application, include these files:

Dockerfile
requirements.txt
bluezuser.conf
entrypoint.sh
app.py
templates/index.html

Directory structure (for pre-built image, only docker-compose.yml is needed):
bluetooth-manager/
└── docker-compose.yml

3. Configure Docker Compose
Edit docker-compose.yml to set the correct image name. Replace <username> with your Docker Hub or GitHub Container Registry username:
image: docker.io/<username>/bluetooth-manager:latest

For GitHub Container Registry, use:
image: ghcr.io/<username>/bluetooth-manager:latest

4. (Optional) Configure Custom UID/GID
To match the Raspberry Pi's user (e.g., pi with UID=1000, GID=1000), create a .env file:
echo "USER_UID=1000" >> .env
echo "USER_GID=1000" >> .env

Check your UID/GID with id pi. If not specified, defaults to USER_UID=1000 and USER_GID=1000.
5. Run with Docker Compose
Pull and start the services:
docker-compose up -d

Alternatively, specify UID/GID directly:
USER_UID=1001 USER_GID=1001 docker-compose up -d

To enable Loki logging, uncomment the loki service and volumes in docker-compose.yml before running.
6. (Optional) Build Locally
If you need to build the image locally (e.g., for modifications), include all project files and run:
docker-compose build

Or build with Docker directly:
docker build -t bluetooth-manager .
docker run --net=host --cap-add=NET_ADMIN -v /var/run/dbus:/var/run/dbus -p 5000:5000 -e USER_UID=1000 -e USER_GID=1000 -t bluetooth-manager

Usage

Access the Web Interface:Open a browser and navigate to http://<Raspberry-Pi-IP>:5000.

Click "Scan for Devices" to discover nearby Bluetooth devices.
Use the "Pair", "Connect", "Disconnect", or "View Services" buttons to manage devices.
GATT services for paired devices are displayed below the device list.


API Endpoints:

GET /api/scan: Start a Bluetooth device discovery (runs for 10 seconds).
GET /api/devices: Retrieve the list of discovered devices.
POST /api/pair/<address>: Pair with a device (e.g., POST /api/pair/00:11:22:33:44:55).
POST /api/connect/<address>: Connect to a paired device.
POST /api/disconnect/<address>: Disconnect from a connected device.
GET /api/services/<address>: Retrieve GATT services for a device.


View Logs:

Check container logs:docker-compose logs bluetooth-manager


If Loki is enabled, access logs via a Grafana dashboard connected to http://<Raspberry-Pi-IP>:3100.


Stop and Clean Up:Stop and remove containers:
docker-compose down

To remove Loki data (if enabled):
docker-compose down -v



File Structure

docker-compose.yml: Defines services for bluetooth-manager and optional loki logging.
Dockerfile (optional for local build): Defines the Docker image with BlueZ, PyGObject, and Python dependencies.
requirements.txt (optional): Lists Python dependencies (flask, dasbus, PyGObject, python-logging-loki).
bluezuser.conf (optional): D-Bus configuration for bluezuser to access BlueZ interfaces, located at /etc/dbus-1/system.d/bluezuser.conf.
entrypoint.sh (optional): Script to initialize the Bluetooth adapter, adjust UID/GID, and start the Flask app.
app.py (optional): Flask application with Bluetooth management logic and logging.
templates/index.html (optional): Web interface styled with Tailwind CSS.

Notes

Pre-built Image: Ensure the image field in docker-compose.yml points to the correct registry (e.g., docker.io/<username>/bluetooth-manager:latest or ghcr.io/<username>/bluetooth-manager:latest).
Custom UID/GID: Set via .env or environment variables to match the host system (check with id <username>).
Loki Logging: Optional. Remove python-logging-loki from requirements.txt and related code in app.py if not using Loki. Uncomment the loki service in docker-compose.yml to enable.
ARM Compatibility: The image must be built for ARM architecture (e.g., via GitHub Actions with ARM support).
Security: The D-Bus configuration is restricted to essential BlueZ interfaces. Avoid running with --privileged.
PyGObject Dependency: The gi module (via PyGObject) is required for dasbus. Ensure libgirepository1.0-dev and gir1.2-glib-2.0 are included in the image.

Troubleshooting

ERROR: failed to solve: process "/bin/sh -c pip3 install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt" did not complete successfully: exit code: 1:

Cause: Failure to install Python dependencies, likely PyGObject, due to missing build tools or system dependencies.
Fix:
Ensure gcc, g++, pkg-config, libgirepository1.0-dev, and gir1.2-glib-2.0 are installed in the Dockerfile.
Verify PyGObject is in requirements.txt.
Check build logs for specific errors (e.g., Failed building wheel for PyGObject).
Rebuild the image:docker-compose build


Test locally:docker run -it bluetooth-manager bash
pip3 install -r requirements.txt


If using GitHub Actions, ensure the workflow rebuilds and pushes the updated image.




ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'gi':

Cause: The PyGObject module is missing, required by dasbus for D-Bus communication.
Fix: Ensure PyGObject is in requirements.txt and libgirepository1.0-dev, gir1.2-glib-2.0 are installed in the Dockerfile. Rebuild the image:docker-compose build

Verify installation:docker exec <container_id> python3 -c "import gi; print(gi.__version__)"

If using GitHub Actions, ensure the workflow rebuilds and pushes the updated image.


Can't open HCI socket: Address family not supported by protocol:

Cause: The Bluetooth adapter is not detected, disabled, or the container lacks permissions.
Fix:
Ensure the Bluetooth adapter is enabled on the host:sudo hciconfig hci0 up


Verify Bluetooth kernel modules are loaded:lsmod | grep bluetooth
sudo modprobe bluetooth
sudo modprobe btusb


Check docker-compose.yml includes network_mode: host and cap_add: NET_ADMIN.
Verify entrypoint.sh checks for the adapter (hciconfig hci0).




sudo: /usr/lib/bluetooth/bluetoothd: command not found:

Cause: The bluetoothd binary is missing or at a different path (e.g., /usr/libexec/bluetooth/bluetoothd).
Fix:
Ensure bluez is installed in the Dockerfile:docker exec <container_id> dpkg -l | grep bluez


Verify the correct path in entrypoint.sh (/usr/libexec/bluetooth/bluetoothd).
Find the correct path:docker exec <container_id> find / -name bluetoothd


Rebuild the image if necessary:docker-compose build






Traceback involving dasbus and gi:

Cause: The dasbus library fails to import due to a missing gi module.
Fix: Same as for ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'gi'. Ensure PyGObject and its system dependencies are installed. Verify dasbus installation:docker exec <container_id> python3 -c "import dasbus; print(dasbus.__version__)"




Image Not Found: Verify the image field in docker-compose.yml matches the registry path. Pull the image manually:
docker pull docker.io/<username>/bluetooth-manager:latest


Bluetooth Adapter Not Found: Ensure the Raspberry Pi’s Bluetooth adapter is enabled (hciconfig hci0 up).

D-Bus Errors: Verify /etc/dbus-1/system.d/bluezuser.conf exists in the image and has correct permissions (644).

Web Interface Unreachable: Check if port 5000 is open and the Raspberry Pi’s IP is correct.

Permission Issues: Confirm the container has NET_ADMIN capability and the D-Bus socket is mounted.

Loki Not Working: Ensure the loki service is uncommented and the URL in app.py matches (http://loki:3100/loki/api/v1/push).


Future Improvements

Add support for GATT characteristic read/write and notifications.
Enhance the web interface with real-time updates using WebSockets.
Implement authentication for the web interface and API.
Optimize scanning duration and device filtering.

For issues or feature requests, please contact the project maintainer.
